# PHP-Useful-String-Functions
This repo contains a series of PHP functions which are all intended to be useful for developers; these functions will be created as I encounter, in my own development work, functionality I wish existed in PHP but does not currently exist.

One of the first functions I encountered which fits this description is from my amazement there is not a function that clips a given substring from either end of a string. For example, there is not a native function which takes a string, e.g. "example" and clips a substring (let's say "ple") to yield "exam". Note that the use of trim() here as $x = trim("example", "ple"); echo $x; will yield the string "xam". I needed a function which would return "exam", so I am calling this str_clip(). The code is written to avoid the relatively expensive preg_replace() function, which could achieve a similar result. In the str_clip() function, $str is the original string, $clipStr refers to the substring to be clipped off the ends of $str, $multiple is a Boolean which, if set to true, will clip multiple occurrences of the substring off of the ends of $str (the default here is false, where only 1 occurrence of the substring $clipStr is clipped off the end of $str, and finally $side (left or right; default is left) refers to the side of the string which is clipped first (useful for certian strings, e.g., clipping "xcx" with left priority from the string "xcxcx" yields "cx", whereas right priority yields "xc"). The similar function str_lclip() and str_rclip() have been created to clip only at the left and right sides respectively, so no $side argument needs to be introduced for these (the default for multiple is still false).

For scrambling an existing string, I have written str_scramble(). This functions takes 1 argument (the initial string), then creates an associative array in which random numbers are assigned to each character of the string. If a number is sent as an argument, the number is forced to be a string. Objects and arrays return the string "Not a string".
